JOLLY PRADHAN
391 Broadway, Apt 504
Somerville, MA, 02145
603-682-3851
jpradhan@mit.edu
EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
School of Engineering & Sloan School of Management
M.S., System Design and Management
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering Dec 2009
EXPERIENCE
Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates
Systems Engineer
Crion Cold Implant
•
Crion is a cold system that enables customer to implant wafers at -100˚C. The system consists of cryo-chillers, a
vacuum-sealed valve system, and cooling ring to cool the implant mechanism.
•
Conducted and documented characterization tests for Crion by validating cool down rate, throughput, wafer
temperature uniformity and overall functionality of the system.
•
Operated the tool during 40 continuous hours of reliability growth testing and helped release the product from R&D
to Production.
•
Supported customer escalations by analyzing archives from the field and determining root cause of the customer
problems.
26-Wafer Implementation
•
Led the project with a team of mechanical engineers, an electrical engineer and software engineers to create new
hardware as well as software controls to implement the platen warm-up process. Released the hardware through
ECO process to Production and conducted tests to help with software release.
Center for Earthquake Engineering Simulation
Research Engineer
•
Operated and troubleshot earthquake simulation machinery (centrifuge) while conducting experiments.
•
Gained hands-on experience by preparing and sealing centrifuge laminar container with Ph.D. students while using
strain gauges, accelerometer, and pressure sensors.
LEADERSHIP POSITIONS
Fusion Engineering Development Program
Graduate
•
This is a program for new graduates at Varian to expose them to various engineering departments within the
company and to experience presenting to upper management.
•
Rotated through End Station (Robotics), Continuous Improvement and Physics Department (R&D) .
Women’s Mentoring Program at RPI
Co-Chair
§
Developed a new program providing opportunity for mentors and mentees to meet prior to the start of the school
year. As a result of its success, this is now an annual program. Organized formal and informal events including:
Chat with Shirley Ann Jackson (President of RPI) and Design Your Future Day to encourage women in science and
engineering.
TECHNICAL SKILLS
•
Expert in Signal Analysis and Archive Analysis
•
Proficient in Microsoft Excel, Microsoft PowerPoint, MINITAB Statistics, Adobe Illustrator, and Adobe Photoshop.
Basic knowledge 3D CAD Modeling (SolidWorks and ProE), LabVIEW, and MATLAB.
Cambridge, MA
Sept 2015-Present
Troy, NY
Gloucester, MA
Sept 2010-July 2015
Troy, NY
Jan 10-Sept 2010
Sept 2010-Sept 2012
Sept 2006-Sept 2008