DAVIDE LASI
davide.lasi@sdm.mit.edu
EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
School of Engineering & Sloan School of Management
M.S., System Design and Management
University of Milano
Department of Chemistry
M.Sc., Physical-Chemistry, graduated with honors
Thesis: developed new methods in the field of the Quantum Theory of Atoms in Molecules.
•
B.Sc., Chemistry, graduated with honors
Thesis: built and tested a Mössbauer Spectrometer at the National Institute of Nuclear Physics.
•
EXPERIENCE
University of Bern, Space Research & Planetary Sciences (Physics Institute)
Provider of scientific instrumentation for space exploration missions of ESA, NASA, and Roscosmos.
Project Manager
Lead two teams of 8 and 9 engineers (mechanics, electronics, and software), thermal and structural modelers,
•
and scientists for the design and development of three leading-edge mass spectrometers for space missions.
Negotiate and supervise industry contracts for the development of software and hardware.
•
Chair meetings and design reviews with contractors. Draft and implement new agile-contract models.
•
Represent the projects at the European Space Agency (ESTEC Headquarters) and at the Space Research
•
Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences (IKI) on occasion of major design reviews and project meetings.
Plan and execute radiation tests of detectors and materials at electron and proton irradiation facilities.
•
Cerbios-Pharma SA
Pharmaceutical company manufacturing both chemical and biological APIs and HPAIs.
Material Manager (50%) & Project Manager (50%)
Procured advanced pharmaceutical intermediates from China and India; drafted new model of supply
•
agreement; negotiated supply contracts and attended trade fairs and suppliers’ site visits in Europe and China.
Collected and analyzed requirements to define optimizations of the company ERP (Oracle E-Business Suite) for
•
the optimal and GMP compliant handling of materials and their specifications through their complete lifecycle.
Dipharma Francis Srl
Generic active pharmaceutical ingredients manufacturer with a strong portfolio of more than 150 patents.
Assistant to the Head of Intellectual Property
Drafted, filed, and prosecuted patent applications in Europe, USA, Japan, India, China, Israel, and Canada.
•
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Scrum Alliance®
Certified Scrum Product Owner (with Mike Cohn), employer sponsored.
Stanford Centre for Professional Development
Stanford Advanced Project Management Certificate, employer sponsored.
SELECTED PUBLICATIONS
D. Lasi , M. Tulej, S. Meyer, M. Lüthi, A. Galli, D. Piazza, P. Wurz, D. Reggiani, H. Xiao, R. Marcinkowski,
•
W. Hajdas, A. Cervelli, S. Karlsson, T. Knight, M. Grande, and S. Barabash, Shielding an MCP detector for a
space-borne mass spectrometer against the harsh radiation environment in Jupiter's Magnetosphere , IEEE
Trans. Nucl. Sc. 99 (2016).
P. Wurz, D. Lasi , N. Thomas, D. Piazza, A. Galli, M. Jutzi, S. Barabash, M. Wieser, W. Magnes, H. Lammer,
•
U. Auster, L. Gurvits, and W. Hajdas , An Impacting Descent Probe for Europa and the other Galilean Moons of
Jupiter, Earth, Moon, and Planets (2017) submitted .
C. Gatti, D. Lasi , Source function description of metal-metal bonding in d-block organometallic compounds ;
•
Faraday Discussions; 135:55-78; discussion 125-49, 503-6 (2007).
SPORTS & HOBBIES
Sailing regattas, surfing, windsurfing, scuba diving, ski, 4x4 road trips, chess, contemporary photography, playing piano.
Cambridge, MA
08/2016 - present
Milano, Italy
09/2004 - 07/2006
09/2001 - 10/2004
Bern, Switzerland
05/2011 - present
Lugano, Switzerland
05/2008 - 04/2011
Milano, Italy
04/2007 - 04/2008
London, United Kingdom
03/2015
Stanford, CA
03/2013 - 09/2013