Shubham Singhania
183079025
Electrical Engineering
M.Tech.
Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay
Gender: Male
Specialization: Electronic Systems
DOB: 19-12-1995
Examination
University
Institute
Year
CPI / %
Post Graduation
IIT Bombay
IIT Bombay
2021
8.5
Graduation
MAKAUT, West Bengal
Haldia Institute of Technology
2018
9.1
Graduation Specialization: Computer Science & Engineering
AREA OF INTEREST
• Algorithms
• Database Management
• Operating System
• Machine Learning
• Deep Learning
SCHOLASTIC ACHIEVEMENTS
• Secured an All India Rank 475 ( 99.56 percentile) in GATE in Computer Science and Information Technology. ( 2018 )
• Talk on Edge Computing and its Challenges in Fourth Indo-Japanese Joint Research Laboratory
( Nov’19 )
Project (2017–2022) Workshop on Intelligent Cyber Physical Systems held at IIT Bombay.
• Got half freeship as Department Topper (AY 2014-2015) in 3rd and 4th semester (BTech).
MAJOR PROJECTS AND SEMINAR
• M.Tech Project: Machine Learning based Task Scheduling approach for Edge Computing Systems.
Guide: Prof. Virendra Singh, IIT Bombay
( Jul’2020 - Ongoing )
◦ Objective: Design of a Machine learning-based task scheduling algorithm in Edge Computing Systems taking into
consideration task deadline , optimal resource utilization , energy requirement and other dynamic system constraints.
◦ Explored various literature using heuristic as well as Machine Learning-based approaches for Scheduling tasks at Edge.
◦ Investigating scheduling using Deep Reinforcement Learning where the system learns from experience.
◦ Future Work: Deploying the Machine Learning-based algorithm on real-time Edge Computing System and
comparing the performance with existing heuristic based and other scheduling approaches.
• Seminar: Edge Computing and its challenges
( Jul’19 - Dec’19 )
Guide: Prof. Virendra Singh, IIT Bombay
◦ Conducted an extensive literature survey on Edge computing and its various computing paradigm and how it is diﬀerent
from existing Cloud Computing approach .
◦ Explored various security challenges in secure data analytics in Edge , Computing and task Scheduling challenges
for heterogenous tasks in the Edge requiring real-time response, Quality of Service, and Veriﬁable Computation.
WORK EXPERIENCE
• System Administrator | Electrical Department, IIT Bombay
( Jul’18 - Present )
◦ Development and maintenance of EE department website, Dashboard, and other internal portals like faculty search
committee, meeting room booking system, and other portals.
◦ Provide mail service, storage space, computing, and network facilities to the Department.
◦ Automation of M.Tech/PhD admission process for Electrical Engineering Department for 800+ candidates.
KEY COURSE PROJECTS
• Implementation of PAXOS algorithm in Python | Priciples of Concurrent & Parallel Programming (Jul’19-Dec’19)
Instructor: Prof. R.K.Shyamsundar, IIT Bombay
◦ Ensures consensus is reached from a bunch of proposed values in a distributed system.
◦ The algorithm uses three roles, proposers, acceptors & learners and does not need a centralized coordinator node.
• Document Scanner Application in Python | Computer Vision
(Jan’20)
Instructor: Prof. Sharat Chandran, IIT Bombay
◦ Implemented a document scanner to obtain the undistorted image of the largest convex quadrilateral object present
in the input image and to automate the task of choosing the largest convex quadrilateral.
◦ A set of image operations such as Edge and Contour Detection , Corner Point Extraction and Perspective
Transformation was carried out to obtain an undistorted rectangular image of the convex quadrilateral.
• Real Time Target Tracking | DSP -System Design & Implementation
( Jul’19 - Nov’19 )
Instructor: Prof. Rajbabu Velmurugan, IIT Bombay
◦ Designed and developed an object tracking system using image segmentation in TI DSP EVM 6678.
◦ Video signal obtained from USB camera was sent frame by frame to the DSP board using UDP connection.
◦ Target was tracked with a laser pointer mounted on a base with 2 DOF and controlled via Tiva C board.

• Augmented Reality: Augmenting a book on the wall surface | Computer Vision
(Feb’20)
Instructor: Prof. Sharat Chandran, IIT Bombay
◦ The aim of the project was to stick a book on the wall surface which represents reality being augmented.
◦ A set of image operations such as Projecting 3D points on the 2D image plane , Perspective Transformations
and Mask Generation was carried out to stick the book on the wall surface.
• Implementation of Fiduccia Mattheyses Partitioning Algorithm in Python | VLSI CAD
(Jul’18 - Nov’18)
Instructor: Prof. Virendra Singh, IIT Bombay
◦ Implemented Fiduccia Mattheyses partitioning algorithm to partition a circuit assuming distributed systems, such
that the number of connections (external wires) is minimized.
◦ Inputs are netlist along with area information needed by the sub-circuits, and the outputs are mapping of the subcircuits
to nodes and the number of crossings.
• Image Stiching | Image Processing
( Jul’18 - Nov’18 )
Instructor: Prof. Amit Sethi, IIT Bombay
◦ Developed a feature based image stitching GUI application in python.
◦ Applied Scale Invariant Feature Transform ( SIFT ) algorithm for feature detection, Fast Library for Approximate
Nearest Neighbors ( FLANN ) for matching and RANdom Sample Consensus ( RANSAC ) for homography computation.
• Vowel Detection: Feature Extraction and Multi-Class Classiﬁcation | Machine Learning
(Jan’19 - Apr’19)
Instructor: Prof. Biplab Banerjee, IIT Bombay
◦ Trained a multi-class classiﬁer using Softmax function from features obtained from input voice samples.
◦ Obtained a mean test accuracy of 68% on ﬁve classes classiﬁcation.
• Clustering Images using Metric Learning | Computer Vision
(Mar’20)
Instructor: Prof. Sharat Chandran, IIT Bombay
◦ Trained a Siamese network with Contrastive Loss to better separate and visualize the two-dimensional embeddings
of two classes of the MNIST Dataset.
◦ Analysed performance of the obtained model on augmented dataset i.e., images augmented using Euclidean transfor-
mations and trained a new model robust to such data augmentations .
• Design of 6 Stage Pipelined Processor using VHDL | Processor Design
( Jan’19 - Apr’19 )
Instructor: Prof. Virendra Singh, IIT Bombay
◦ Designed RISC Architecture processor using 8 registers to execute 15 instructions of type R, I and J.
◦ Implemented hazard mitigation technique and data forwarding to optimize performance. Design also includes some
advanced instructions like Load multiple (LM) and Store multiple (SM).
TECHNICAL SKILLS
Languages
:
C, Python, VHDL, PHP, Java, SQL, HTML/JS/CSS, Bash.
Tools
:
Git, L A TEX, Code Composite Studio, Altera Quartus II.
RELEVANT COURSES
• Principles of Concurrent & Parallel Programming
• Machine Learning for Remote Sensing -I
• Computer Vision
• Processor Design
• Embedded System Design
• VLSI CAD
POSITIONS OF RESPONSIBILITY
• Mess Secretary | Hostel 1, IIT Bombay
( Jul’18 - Jun’19 )
• Interview Coordinator | Placement Cell, IIT Bombay
( 2018 )
◦ Coordinated with a team of 250+ members for interviews of 1600+ students
◦ Assisted in conducting Pre-placement Talks and Tests for 15+ ﬁrms.
• Web Nominee | Post Graduate Academic Council, IIT Bombay
( 2019 - 2020 )
• Maintenance Councillor | Hostel 1, IIT Bombay
( Jul’19 - Present )
◦ Lead 5 Secretary and 15 working staﬀs to carry out the maintenance activity of the hostel.
◦ Started 2 dustbin approach to segregate waste generation at source.
• Web Coordinator | Students’ Reading Group, Electrical Department, IIT Bombay
( Jul’19 - Present )
OTHER ACTIVITIES & INTERESTS
• Completed 4 out 5 courses in Deep learning Specialization authorized by deeplearning.ai in Coursera.
• Ongoing course in Reinforce learning Specialization authorized by the University of Alberta in Coursera.
• Trained students in a 1-day solar lamp assembly world record event conducted at IIT Bombay.
( 2 Oct’18 )
• Volunteered for Linux workshop for Electrical Department PG Bridgecourse, IIT Bombay.
( Jul’19 )
• Volunteered for Phonathan event of reaching out alumni for Student Alumni Relation Cell, IIT Bombay.
( Jun’19 )
• Active Blood Donor, Hobbies: Watching TV series, Gardening, Cooking
Scholastic achievements and extracurricular activities are not verified by the Placement Cell