Ashish Pratap Singh
ć xxx@gmail.com | Ħ XXX-XXX-XXX
a github.com/ashishps1 | ] linkedin.com/in/ashishps1
Skills
Languages: C/C++, Java, Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, SQL
Technologies & Tools: AWS, EC2, DynamoDB, S3, SQS, Lambda, Athena, Elasticsearch, Spark, Hive, Presto, Kuber-
netes, Docker, Splunk, Kafka, Spring, Angular, ReactJS
Work Experience
Adobe, Bangalore
Computer Scientist
• Led the migration of Hive and Presto jobs from Qubole to AWS EMR, enhancing availability and significantly reducing
operational costs.
• Reduced the cost involved in running custom reports service by more than 80% by devising an automated system that
identified and disabled reports with no usage or empty data.
• Led a cost-saving initiative by identifying unused AWS resources and establishing S3 bucket expiration policies, leading
to an annual cost reduction exceeding $50,000 in AWS expenditures.
• AWS, EC2, S3, EMR, Hive, Presto, Qubole, Kafka, Druid, Zookeeper, MySQL, Kubernetes, Docker, Bazel
Amazon, Bangalore
Software Development Engineer
• Worked on migrating ML workflows to Native AWS, enabling automated scalability based on workload demands and
improving the logging and troubleshooting capabilities.
• Developed a customized batch workflow plugin for an external team to help them save upto $6MM in human labelling
cost for their ML experiments. This was achieved by auto labelling high confidence records using our ML models.
• Java, Python, TypeScript, AWS Step Functions, AWS Batch, Lambda, S3, DynamoDB, EC2, SQS, SNS, AWS CDK,
AWS Athena, Elastic Search, LightGBM, TensorFlow
Morgan Stanley, Bangalore
Technology Assosciate
• Built a visualization tool to group contextually related infrastructure alerts (issues) to reduce the Mean Time to Resolu-
tion. Modeled the infrastructure dependencies as a graph problem and used graph algorithms like BFS, Union-Find to
show the visualization and identify the root cause for a bunch of alerts.
• Developed a Machine Learning powered solution to predict the likelihood of a production deployment resulting in an
emergency reversion.
• Python, Flask, ReactJS, Redux, Angular, d3, Kafka, DB2, scikit-learn
Education
BITS Hyderabad
B.E. in Computer Science and Engineering
Relevant Coursework: Object Oriented Programming, Databases, Discrete Maths, Data Structures and Algorithms, Oper-
ating Systems, Computer Networks, Machine Learning, Data Mining, Advance Data Structures and Algorithms, Information
Retrieval, Image Processing
Project Work
• Word Lookup Dictionary (2015): Developed a desktop software for online lookup of English words. Implemented
efficient search of valid words using Trie data structure. Implemented spelling correction and auto-suggestion using
edit distance algorithm. Used web scraping to get the data for online lookup. Python, BeautifulSoup.
• Alternative-Routes in Road Networks (2016): Applied Dijkstra’s shortest path algorithm to find the route which takes
the shortest time to travel from source to destination in a given road network with randomly generated traffic. Imple-
mented methods to avoid collisions between vehicles by dynamically changing their speeds. Used C++ and OpenGL
library for simulation. C++, OpenGL
• Clustering SSH Attacks (2016): Applied KMeans clustering algorithm to segregate different kind of attacks during a
Secure Shell (SSH) session by making use of network packet files(pcap). It involved finding the best value of K and
grouping the similar files on the basis of cluster assignments. Java, WEKA
Mar 2021 - Present
Sept 2019 - Mar 2021
Aug 2017 - Aug 2019
Aug 2013 - Jun 2017
CGPA: 7.96/10

Awards and Certificates
• Mentor at Scaler Academy: Helping students and working professionals to get better at problem solving, coding and
system design
• Data Engineering Nanodegree on Udacity
• Machine Learning and Deep Learning Specialization on Coursera