ERDEM YILMAZ
eyilmaz@mit.edu
Newton, MA
EDUCATION
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
School of Engineering & Sloan School of Management
Master of Science in Engineering and Management
Focus on technology strategy, artificial intelligence and data mining systems
•
Cross registered to Harvard Business School to take classes on digital transformation and technology strategy
•
University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth
Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering
Thesis on wireless system design
•
Awarded fully scholarship
•
Technical University of Yildiz
Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Communication Engineering
Thesis on numerical analysis
•
EXPERIENCE
Cheryish Technology LLC, Cambridge
Co-founder
Cheryish provides technology consulting on AI powered unified communication services along with a portfolio of
software products to improve customer engagement for enterprises. My focus is product and technology strategy.
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Sloan School of Business
Graduate Fellow / Research Assistant
Areas of interest are entrepreneurship, technology strategy and innovation management.
Research assistant to Prof. James Utterback (Sloan) – Prof. Calie Pistorious (University of Hull, UK)
Evolv Technology, Waltham, MA
A high-tech startup that raised $19M to date, developing AI systems for public safety
Lead Engineer / (Consultant since 9/2016)
Technical lead for new products, reporting to CTO and CEO. Wide range of responsibilities to develop products
•
from idea phase to prototype and product phase.
Managed contract engineers, technicians and designers in person or via crowdsourcing. Recruited undergrad
•
engineering students from MIT for internships
Smiths Interconnect, Hudson, MA
An aerospace vendor providing embedded computer equipment
Lead Engineer
Senior Engineer
Interact with existing / new customers, understand their needs, create specifications, and utilize cross-function teams
•
to deliver products that exceed the requirements. Work with Smiths Interconnect offices in Italy, UK, Germany and
USA to deliver products on time.
Technical lead of development of new value added product portfolio (KVPX, SATA for aerospace) with sales over
•
$5M for first year
Orbital Sciences (now Orbital ATK), Dulles, VA
Medium size communication satellite and launch vehicle vendor
Sub-system Lead Engineer and Cost Account Manager
Senior Engineer
Engineer
Responsible of performance, budget and schedule of a communication sub-system. Lead a team of four engineers to
•
successfully deliver the sub-system on time managing $1.2M subsystem budget
PROFESSIONAL INTEREST
Unified communication, digital transformation, business applications of artificial intelligence and data mining to
improve services, technology consulting, technology research.
Cambridge, MA
Expected Graduation June 2017
Dartmouth, MA
2007
Istanbul, Turkey
2005
Cambridge, MA
November 2016-Present
Cambridge, MA
September 2015-Present
Waltham, MA
2014-September 2016
Hudson, MA
2013-2014
2011-2013
Dulles, VA
2010-2011
2009-2010
2007-2009